All right.
So in this lesson, we'll write our first tests for our headline component.
And as a reminder, if I scroll down in my headline, we are using these two helper JavaScript functions,
clear interval and set interval.
So what we're going to do in is effectively mock out these functions and we can do so automatically.
So let me show you this in action in our previous test, I'm going to remove all of this content.
I just want to console.log the original JavaScript clear interval function as an example.
This is a reference to the exact same function that we're using in the body of our headline component.
So you'll see this function here and it's anonymous and this is actually the original JavaScript implementation
of clear interval.
And if we were to mount our component in our tests, the original clear interval function would be used,
which as we mentioned, is not great because it's complex and because we don't really care about its
implementation for the purposes of headline.
Well, let me show you what happens when I add a special method call here and it's going to be on my
top level just object.
And I want to invoke a method called use fake timers.
And you can see in the description here it says instructs Gest to use fake versions of the standard
timer functions.
So the timer functions in JavaScript include things like set interval, clear interval, set, timeout,
etc. Anything that has to do with the passage of time or timing operations, what use fake timers is
going to do is automatically find any of those calls and replace them with the Gest mock function that
we explored in the previous lesson.
So I'm going to invoke this and immediately notice when the test runs instead of getting the previous
output, we're going to get this output right here.
Right.
And this is actually a just mock function object.
You can take a look.
You can see the word mock is present.
And these are a bunch of different methods that are available on that object.
As a reminder, that object can keep track of how many times the function has been invoked and what
it's been called with, etc. And we can also do things like fake return values, fake implementations,
etc. and we'll get into some of these methods a little bit later in the course.
The point is that this is that gest function object that we saw in the previous lesson.
I can prove this to you by console logging directly below the exact same code we had in the previous
lesson, the creation of that just function.
So now I have two console logs right next to each other and as I scroll up you'll notice that the outputs
are basically identical.
Now they are two separate objects, of course, but they are the same entity.
They are the same thing.
They are this function mock constructor object right here.
Right?
So basically what we're doing here is we're replacing clear interval anywhere.
It's being used in our test with a mock function like the one we explored in the previous lesson.
But with this method it just is doing that automatically.
For us, it's performing that substitution, that replacement automatically behind the scenes.
Now, a good idea is to make sure that we don't have any test pollution.
And what I mean by that is that we don't want something that we do in one test to accidentally affect
another test.
So imagine there's another developer somewhere that actually is mounting a component and not marking
out clear interval.
Our code sets this kind of global gest setting that says to mock out or stub out those JavaScript timer
functions and that could accidentally cascade or pollute another test and how it runs.
So generally, whenever you perform something like this, a really good idea is to make sure at the
very end of the test that you return everything back to its original implementation.
So if we are mocking out these core JavaScript functions at the very end of the test after our assertions,
that's when I'd like to return them back to their original implementations.
And to do that I can do another method.
I'm just called use real timers and you can see instructor just to use the real versions of the standard
timer functions.
So it's almost like a reset that gets things back to their original implementation.
And thus if I console.log clear interval before and after, you're going to see the very first output
is going to be this mock function and afterwards we're going to go back to the original implementation
of clear interval as it is defined in JavaScript.
All right.
So with that knowledge, we can go ahead and write our first test and I'm going to remove this inner
test in our describe block because that was only for the purposes of introducing these concepts.
And I'll write my first test description.
And the first thing I want to test about my headline component is that it starts off with some action
verb, right?
And given that we are starting things off with the action of build, I expect that when the component
renders, the first text it should display is build for everyone, and then in a follow up text test
will check that after the interval passes, we expect it to be the next text text in line.
So whatever comes after build for example, should be create.
But let's start with our first case.
So right now I'll write a description of.
It displays introductory action verb.
All right.
So we know that our component is going to use those built in JavaScript functions.
So I'm immediately going to mock them out.
So I'll call, just use fake timers, invoke that.
And then at the very end of the test will remember to say, just use real timers like so.
And then in between that we can actually write our tests.
So I'll begin by creating my constant wrapper and mounting my headline component, and then we're going
to follow the same protocol we've used before.
We're going to look for some kind of attribute with the data test name and just test that it displays
the correct text.
So I'm going to declare a constant called the action phrase.
And in my wrapper I will attempt to find.
A data test attribute with a value of, let's say, action phrase.
Again, this is totally up to us.
And then what I can do is on that node, as we've seen before, we can call the text method and that
will return the nested text that is within that element or node or whatever it is that the find method
returns.
So just the inner text.
And of course, if we are searching for this thing, eventually, I want it to be this H1 right here.
That's what I intend to add my data test attribute to.
Well, then I expect my starter text to be.
Build for everyone because our first action is build and then we're adding on for everyone at the end.
And that's going to be the complete inner text.
Part of that inner text is going to be dynamically generated.
That's going to be the build keyword, and the rest is going to be constant or static, and that is
for everyone.
But remember, from the tests perspective, they don't really care about the implementation.
They just want to look at the component and compare what text they see versus the actual text in the
implementation.
All right.
So this should be a good place to start.
So I'm going to go ahead and save this file.
Will fail, of course, because we do not have any text that it can find, because this data test actually
does not return a valid element.
Because we have not added that data test actually yet.
So right here on my H1, at the very end of all my classes, I'll add this data test attribute and I'll
assign it the string of action phrase.
And prettier will automatically break it down across several lines and our tests will rerun.
And that gets us to a passing test suite.
Awesome.
So this is a good place to start.
We have now tested the first action that appears and in the very next lesson will write the follow up
text test, which will check for the right text when it changes.
I know it's confusing and part in my my mis speaking of the words text and test which are very similar,
but hopefully you get the intent here.
We'll continue chipping away at these tests in the very next lesson.